Retrospective is a type of a meeting that a team can use to discuss what was done well and what should be done differently in the future. It can be held after the whole project or after a smaller part or iteration has been completed. Below are described two different reptrospective types - the "Start, stop, continue, more of, less of wheel" type and the "Glad, sad, mad" type - in more detail.

The "Start, stop, continue, more of, less of wheel" type of retrospective is used to get open-ended feedback and it takes about 10 minutes of time. In it a wheel is drawn on a large paper with matching sections and the team members are encouraged to comment on how they feel the time period under evaluation has went. The facilitator of the event adds the comments on the wheel and makes sure the comments are recorded in the right section. After the wheel is ready with all the comments, there is a discussion regarding each comment with the team and a plan is made on what kind of changes will be done to improve working in the future. If there is a large group, the project under evaluation can be divided into subsections and the group is then divided into as many subgroups. Each group creates their own wheel and then each of these wheels is discussed and filled with comments from other subgroups.

The "Glad, sad, mad" retrospective is of a more detailed type and it can take up to 60 minutes. In it the team is asked to separately spend some time writing their own short comments on how they feel the time period under evaluation has went or observations they have made regarding it. This can be done for example with post-it notes. Then, those comments are explained - without any discussion at this point - to the entire team and they are added in the "glad, sad or mad" subsections on a large paper, a whitebord or something similar. When all the post-it notes have been added, similar notes are grouped together and each member of the group is given a limited amount of votes and they get to vote on the most important groups of notes. Finally the facilitator goes through the notes starting with the one with most votes and leads the discussion about it. This continues until all the issues have been discussed or time has run out, and the goal is to get actions that can be done in the future to improve the work of the team.
